[Auth] Migrate `app-backend` to use new auth services (#23719)
backstage/backstage: docs/tutorials/enable-public-entry.md

     createApiFactory,
     discoveryApiRef,
   } from '@backstage/core-plugin-api';
   import { RedirectToRoot } from '@backstage/plugin-auth-react';
   import { providers } from '../src/identityProviders';
   import { AuthProxyDiscoveryApi } from '../src/AuthProxyDiscoveryApi';

   // Notice that this is only setting up what is needed by the sign-in pages
   const app = createApp({
     apis: [
       createApiFactory({
         api: discoveryApiRef,
         deps: { configApi: configApiRef },
         factory: ({ configApi }) =>
           AuthProxyDiscoveryApi.fromConfig(configApi),
       }),
     ],
     components: {
       SignInPage: props => {
         return (
           <SignInPage
             {...props}
             providers={['guest', 'custom', ...providers]}
             title="Select a sign-in method"
             align="center"
           />
         );
       },
     },
   });

   const App = app.createRoot(
     <>
       <AlertDisplay transientTimeoutMs={2500} />
       <OAuthRequestDialog />
       <AppRouter>
         {/* This is a special component that does the magic to redirect users to access the home page of your authenticated application version */}

>          <RedirectToRoot />

Author: It feels very similar to launching a web oauth flow... maybe we could make the SignInPage component redirect the user? and here the user can render only public routes?

       </AppRouter>
     </>,
   );

   ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(<App />);
   ```

3) Then ensure your main entry is also protected by the experimental app provider, as shown in the following example:

```tsx title="in packages/app/src/index-public-experimental.tsx"
// ...
export default app.createRoot(
  <>
    <AlertDisplay transientTimeoutMs={2500} />
    <OAuthRequestDialog />
    <AppRouter>
      {/* For now, this is just a temporary solution to ensure the user remains logged in properly and has access to the main app content. */}

>       <ExperimentalAppProtection>

Author: This seems unnecessary to do manually, I would have placed it in the createRoot logic, but we can't have a dependency on the `auth-react` package from the `core-plugin-api` package, can we?

Author: I realized that the cookie refresh provider expects a children, so it needs to be a wrap because of that.

        <VisitListener />
        <Root>{routes}</Root>
      </ExperimentalAppProtection>
    </AppRouter>
  </>,
);
```

4. You're now ready to build your front-end app:

```sh
yarn workspace example-app build
```

5. And also serve it from your Backstage app backend:

```sh

> yarn start-backend:next

Author: Could you help me to explain it for the production environment?

Author: Done

---
id: enable-public-entry
title: Enabling a public entry point
description: A guide for how to experiment with public and protected Backstage app bundles
---

# Enable Public Entry (Experimental)

In this tutorial, you will learn how to restrict access to your main Backstage app bundle to authenticated users only.

It is expected that the protected bundle feature will be refined in future development iterations, but for now, here is a simplified explanation of how it works:

Your Backstage app bundle is split into two code entries:

- Public entry point containing login pages;
- There is also a protected main entry point that contains the code for what you see after signing in.

With that, Backstage's cli and backend will detect public entry point and serve it to unauthenticated users, while serving the main, protected entry point only to authenticated users.

## Requirements

- The tutorial will only work for those using backstage-cli to build and serve their Backstage app.

> ## Step-by-step

Reviewer: Let's also mention that the app needs to be served by the `app-backend` plugin, or this won't work.

Author: Done

1. Create a `index-public-experimental.tsx` in your app `src` folder;
   :::note
   The filename is a convention, so it is not currently configurable.
   :::

2. This file is the public entry point for your application, and it should only contain what unauthenticated users should see:

   ```tsx title="in packages/app/src/index-public-experimental.tsx"
   import React from 'react';
   import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
   import { createApp } from '@backstage/app-defaults';
   import { AppRouter } from '@backstage/core-app-api';
   import {
     AlertDisplay,
     OAuthRequestDialog,
     SignInPage,
   } from '@backstage/core-components';
   import {
     configApiRef,
     createApiFactory,
     discoveryApiRef,
   } from '@backstage/core-plugin-api';
   import { CookieAuthRedirect } from '@backstage/plugin-auth-react';
   import { providers } from '../src/identityProviders';

>    import { AuthProxyDiscoveryApi } from '../src/AuthProxyDiscoveryApi';

Reviewer: This is our own thing in the example-app, let's skip it in this example. We can still have a comment with a note that one may need to include individual APIs with the `apis` options for the sign-in page to work.

Author: Done

   // Notice that this is only setting up what is needed by the sign-in pages
   const app = createApp({
     apis: [
       createApiFactory({
         api: discoveryApiRef,
         deps: { configApi: configApiRef },
         factory: ({ configApi }) =>
           AuthProxyDiscoveryApi.fromConfig(configApi),
       }),
     ],
     components: {
       SignInPage: props => {
         return (
           <SignInPage
             {...props}

>              providers={['guest', 'custom', ...providers]}

Reviewer: Let's skip `'custom'`, it's a bit of a weird one

Author: Done

             title="Select a sign-in method"
             align="center"
           />
         );
       },
     },
   });

   const App = app.createRoot(
     <>
       <AlertDisplay transientTimeoutMs={2500} />
       <OAuthRequestDialog />
       <AppRouter>

>          {/* This is a special component that does the magic to redirect users to access the home page of your authenticated application version */}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         {/* This component triggers an authenticated redirect to the main app, while staying on the same URL */}
```

Something like that? 😅, wanna avoid ✨ "magic" ✨ here at least :p

         <CookieAuthRedirect />
       </AppRouter>
     </>,
   );

   ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')!).render(<App />);
   ```

> 3. The frontend will handle cookie refreshing automatically, so you don't have to worry about it;

Author: Done

> 4. You're now ready to build and serve your frontend and backend as usual;

Reviewer: Let's make this a verification step instructing users to build the app and then serve and access it via the backend in local development, while also pointing out that regular app serve for local dev will always serve the protected app and not be authenticated.

Author: Done
